feat(Connector) How to create a connector apart from Studio (#1199)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: md/connector-archetype.md

> 

Reviewer: A main title with a description for SEO is lacking

> ## How to create a custom connector apart from the Bonita Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a custom connector
```
As it will be the official way of developping connector I would use a more generic title (Creating connector in the Studio will diseappear)

Bonita offers the possibility to create and plug custom connectors, to allow you to connect with any external system you may need.  

> A maven archetype is available on maven central to help you to bootstrap a connector project apart from the Bonita Studio. The source code of the archetype is available [here](https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-connector-archetype).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide a maven archetype to help you to bootstrap a connector project. The source code of the archetype is available [here](https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-connector-archetype).
```
The fact that it will be available on maven central is an implementation detail that is subject to change (maybe we will host our own public repository)

### Prerequisite

>  1. Java must be installed: [https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html](https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Java 8 must be installed: [https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html](https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html)
```

 2. Maven must be installed: [https://maven.apache.org/install.html](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)

>  3. Developing a connector outside Bonita Studio requires some software development skills. The  archetype offers the possibility to develop the connector in Java, Groovy or Kotlin. Make sure that you are comfortable with at least one of those three languages. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. Connector development requires some software development skills. The  archetype offers the possibility to develop the connector in _Java_, _Groovy_ or _Kotlin_. Make sure that you are comfortable with at least one of those three languages. 
```

> ### Create a Bonita connector project using the maven archetype

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate the project using the maven archetype
```

> A maven archetype is a maven project templating toolkit (_[more details here](https://maven.apache.org/archetype/index.html)_). This archetype allows you to bootstrap a Bonita connector project on your file system. A Bonita connector project is a maven project. It can be built, and then imported into a Bonita Studio to be used.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [maven archetype](https://maven.apache.org/archetype/index.html) is a maven project templating toolkit. This archetype allows you to bootstrap a Bonita connector project on your file system. A Bonita connector project is a maven project. It can be built, tested and then imported into a Bonita project using Bonita Studio.
```

Author: I updated the suggestion, you put the url _https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html_, it is not related.

To create your connector project, prompt a terminal and enter the following command: 
::: warning
**Warning:** Make sure that you are not executing the command from an existing maven project.
:::
```
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeGroupId=org.bonitasoft.archetypes -DarchetypeArtifactId=bonita-connector-archetype -DarchetypeVersion=1.0.0
```
You'll then have to specify interactively the properties of your project: 

- **groupId:** the group id of your connector.
- **artifactId:** the artifact id of your connector

> - **version:** the version of your connector _(default value: 1.0-SNAPSHOT)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **version:** the version of your connector _(default value: 1.0-SNAPSHOT)_
Follow the [maven naming convention guide](http://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-naming-conventions.html)
```

The root _pom.xml_ file has the following parent: 
```xml
<parent>
    <groupId>org.bonitasoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>bonita-connectors</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</parent>
```
This parent contains the logic that make the replacements in the implementation xml file at build time.

By default, two zip archives are built: 

 - One containing all the definitions and implementations found in the project (built using the file _connector-assembly.xml)_
 - One containing only the default implementation generated (built using the file _[connector name]-assembly.xml_

Those two assembly are here to help you to:

 - Build an _all in one_ zip archive for all the definitions and implementation created in this project. By importing this archive in a Bonita Studio you will import all the definitions and implementations created in the project
 - Build a single zip archive with only one implementation. This implementation zip archive can be imported in a Bonita Studio, but also in a Bonita Bundle to update a connector implementation at runtime.

To build the connector project, type the following command at the root of the project : 
```

> mvn clean install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./mvnw clean install
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
By default, maven wrapper is installed by the archetype. It helps to have a portable and reproductible build system. If you elected to disable the wrapper install at archetype generation, you can use your local maven install:
```
mvn clean install
```
```

> The two zip archives can be found in the folder _target_ after the build: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, maven wrapper is installed by the archetype. It helps to have a portable and reproductible build system. If you elected to disable the wrapper install at archetype generation, you can use your local maven install.

The two zip archives can be found in the folder _target_ after the build: 
```

>  - **[artifactd id]-[pom version]-all.zip** for the _all in one_ archive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **[artifact id]-[artifact version]-all.zip** for the _all in one_ archive
```

>  - **[artifactd id]-[pom version]-[connector name].zip** for the implementation archive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **[artifact id]-[artifact version]-[connector name].zip** for the implementation archive
```

## How to create a custom connector apart from the Bonita Studio

> Bonita offers the possibility to create au plug custom connectors, to allow you to connect with any external system you may need.  

Reviewer 2: "au plug" ?

Author: typo ^^'

A maven archetype is available on maven central to help you to bootstrap a connector project apart from the Bonita Studio. The source code of the archetype is available [here](https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-connector-archetype).

### Prerequisite

 1. Java must be installed: [https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html](https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html)

>  2.  Maven must be installed: [https://maven.apache.org/install.html](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. Maven must be installed: [https://maven.apache.org/install.html](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
```

>  3. Developing a connector apart from the Bonita Studio requires some software development skills. The  archetype offers the possibility to develop the connector in Java, Groovy or Kotlin. Make sure that you are comfortable with at least one of those three languages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 3. Developing a connector outside Bonita Studio requires some software development skills. The  archetype offers the possibility to develop the connector in Java, Groovy or Kotlin. Make sure that you are comfortable with at least one of those three languages. 
```

Author: I also used this sentence in the title, it's ok to keep it there?

### Create a Bonita connector project using the maven archetype

A maven archetype is a maven project templating toolkit (_[more details here](https://maven.apache.org/archetype/index.html)_). This archetype allows you to bootstrap a Bonita connector project on your file system. A Bonita connector project is a maven project. It can be built, and then imported into a Bonita Studio to be used.  

> Before to create your project, you have to define: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before creating your project, you have to define: 
```

    _used as a maven artifactId_
 - The **version** of your connector
    _used as a maven version_
 - The **name** of your connector
 - The targeted **Bonita version**: 
    A Bonita connector project depends on _org.bonitasoft.engine:bonita-common_. To avoid potential conflicts / errors at runtime, you should use the Bonita version of your runtime environment.
 - The **language** used in your project. Available values: 
     - java (_default_)
     - groovy
     - kotlin

To create your connector project, prompt a terminal and enter the following command: 
::: warning
**Warning:** Make sure that you are not executing the command from an existing maven project.
:::
```
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeGroupId=org.bonitasoft.archetypes -DarchetypeArtifactId=bonita-connector-archetype -DarchetypeVersion=1.0.0 -DgroupId=[YOUR GROUP ID] -DartifactId=[YOUR ARTIFACT ID] -Dversion=[YOUR VERSION] -DconnectorName=[YOUR CONNECTOR NAME] -DbonitaVersion=[TARGET BONITA VERSION] -Dlanguage=[YOUR LANGUAGE]
```
A folder name _[your artifact id]_ containing your project should be created. This connector project can already be built, imported and used in a process.

### Connector developpment

> In this section we'll look into the different component of a connector project, and how you should use them to develop your connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section we'll look into the different components of a connector project, and how you should use them to develop your connector.
```
